<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/strict.dtd">

<html xmlns:v="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:vml"
xmlns:o="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"
xmlns:w="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:word"
xmlns="http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40" >

<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="canSASVReportFinal_files/reportstyle.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="cs_style.css" type="text/css" />
<title>canSAS Workshop Report</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=white lang=EN-US style='tab-interval:.5in'>

<!--#include file="header.html"-->
<div class='cs_pagelayout2'>
<!--#include file="sidebar.html"-->
<div class='cs_pagebody'>

The workshop report is also <a href="canSASVReportFinal.pdf">available in PDF</a>.

<hr>
<div class=Section1>

<h1 align=center style='text-align:center'>canSAS V <o:p></o:p></h1>

<h1 align=center style='text-align:center'>Workshop Report<o:p></o:p></h1>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The Fifth canSAS meeting was held on October 29<sup>th</sup>
to 31<sup>st</sup> on the NIST campus in Gaithersburg, Maryland, hosted by the
NCNR SANS group.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>The aim of the
international organizing committee was to keep the group to a reasonable size of
motivated people to have frank and open discussion of issues and work on
solutions that would be outcomes of the meeting.<span style="mso-spacerun:
yes">&nbsp; </span>The format included oral presentations, posters, and
software demos as well as plenty of discussion time from moderated discussions,
to open discussions, to various informal discussion opportunities.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>The workshop was successful at
stimulating significant levels of interactions and lively discussions.<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The following six points are the result of that meeting and
the outcomes agreed to at the final session on Wednesday morning.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Most of them consist of the formation
of working groups to keep the momentum going on issues that showed promise at
the meeting:<o:p></o:p></p>

<a href="http://www.smallangles.net/wgwiki/index.php/Facilities_Representatives_Discussion_Group"><h2 style='margin-left:.25in;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo2;
tab-stops:list .25in'><![if !supportLists]>I.<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span><![endif]>Facility Representatives Discussion Group<o:p></o:p></h2></a>

<p class=MsoNormal>There was agreement to form some kind of Facilities Representatives
Discussion Group (FRDG) that should meet two to four times a year by
teleconference.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Preference for
videoconferencing when possible was expressed. Also a mailing list might be an
appropriate means of arranging the meetings, circulating agendas, and extending
discussions.<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>It was envisaged that this group should not be seen as those
who will carry out all the work or have all the answers. Rather they will be a
contact group who will bring in their local experts to deal with issues as
needed.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Briefly noted were the
conflicting requirements of keeping the group small enough to be manageable
while being as inclusive as possible.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Clearly details still need to be worked out and Paul Butler agreed to
spearhead this effort.<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The following issues were brought up at the workshop but
were not assigned immediate actions and need further discussion.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>These could be suitable subjects for
this forum:<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Co-refinement
     issues <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Preservation
     of data issues<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Auto-capturing
     and storing of meta data<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Qz issues
     (both in terms of data sampling and resolution)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Resolution
     issues and how to educate users to their relevance<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Naming
     convention for reduced data (also to be explored by format group)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Higher
     order reduced data sets (1, 2, 3, 4... etc)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Libraries
     and binary repositories of code &#8211; should use portal. Standard should
     accommodate both validated and "seat of pants" code.<span
     style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Linux model was suggested as an
     example<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Sharing
     information on current individual facility initiatives and discussion of
     possible collaborative intiatives <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level1 lfo3;tab-stops:list .5in'>Next
     Generation software support:<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
     </span>How do we design and deploy our software to enable the science<o:p></o:p></li>
 <ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=a>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level2 lfo3;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>Design
      to various level of users <o:p></o:p></li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level2 lfo3;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>Real
      time fitting @ beamline<o:p></o:p></li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level2 lfo3;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>Experiment
      planning (include simulations)<o:p></o:p></li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l10 level2 lfo3;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>New
      software tools (SASSIE, LORES, "microscope")<o:p></o:p></li>
 </ol>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The following people expressed interest in participating in
this process:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Peter
     Boesecke (ESRF)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Paul
     Butler (NIST) <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Daniel
     Clemens (Germany)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Charles
     Dewhurst (ILL)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Eliott
     Gilbert (ANSTO)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Rex
     Hjelm (LANSCE)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Pete
     Jemian (APS)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Steve
     King (ISIS)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Ken
     Littrell<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>(ORNL) <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Adrian
     Rennie (Users)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l15 level1 lfo4;tab-stops:list .5in'>Nick
     Terrill (Diamond)<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Timetable:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l11 level1 lfo7;tab-stops:list .5in'>First
     meeting to be organized in first quarter of 2008<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<a href="http://www.smallangles.net/wgwiki/index.php/1D_Data_Formats_Working_Group"><h2 style='margin-top:.25in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:6.0pt;margin-left:
.25in;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo2;tab-stops:list .25in'><![if !supportLists]>II.<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp; </span><![endif]>1D Data
Formats<o:p></o:p></h2></a>

<p class=MsoNormal>A working group on 1D formats was formed.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>After some heated debate over the
proposal brought forward by Steve King and Ron Ghosh, an XML 1D format, with 4
default columns defined and others left to individual facility discretion, was
agreed on in principle.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Many
details were worked out at the meeting but a working group was formed to
finalize and circulate a final proposal by the end of 2007. It was suggested
that this group also consider the feasibility of file naming convention but
that failure to make progress in that area should not slow the process of
adoption of the file format itself.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Also noted was the similarity to reflectometry data and the fact that at
some point it might be appropriate to contact that group.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Marc Malfois noted that the IUCr SAS CIF format had just
been ratified while Pete Jemian indicated that the SAS NeXus format was "very
close" and would probably be ratified by the next NIAC meeting expected in the
second half of 2008.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>The working
group was encouraged to keep naming conventions compatible with the NeXus
standard.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Pete Jemian being
involved with both groups would help ensure this.<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The working group consists of:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l13 level1 lfo5;tab-stops:list .5in'>Andrew
     Jackson (NIST)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l13 level1 lfo5;tab-stops:list .5in'>Pete
     Jemian (APS)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l13 level1 lfo5;tab-stops:list .5in'>Steve
     King (ISIS)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l13 level1 lfo5;tab-stops:list .5in'>Ken
     Littrell (ORNL)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l13 level1 lfo5;tab-stops:list .5in'>Andy
     Nelson (ANSTO) </li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l13 level1 lfo5;tab-stops:list .5in'>Ron
     Ghosh (ILL) *<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l13 level1 lfo5;tab-stops:list .5in'>Jan
     Ilavsky (APS) *<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>* Jan and Ron stated that they wanted to be "in the loop"
but not necessarily be directly involved in the decision making.<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Timetable:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l9 level1 lfo6;tab-stops:list .5in'>Final
     proposal for minimal file definition circulating by end of 2007. <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l9 level1 lfo6;tab-stops:list .5in'>Names
     of first facilities implementing standard available by first meeting of FRDG.<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l9 level1 lfo6;tab-stops:list .5in'>1st
     draft of proposal for 2D reduced format by SAS 2009<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<a href="http://www.smallangles.net/wgwiki/index.php/IGOR_Pro_Developers_Working_Group"><h2 style='margin-left:.25in;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo2;
tab-stops:list .25in'><![if !supportLists]>III.<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span><![endif]>IGOR Developers<o:p></o:p></h2></a>

<p class=MsoNormal>An IGOR working group was formed to address issues common to
all the IGOR SAS developers.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
</span>Whilst it was felt that the IGOR SAS developer community was basically
present at the workshop, the<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>IUCr
sa_scat list might be used to find other interested parties.<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The purposes of the group were seen to be:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l8 level1 lfo8;tab-stops:list .5in'>Developing
     common documented practices, particularly as regards procedure naming
     conventions which can lead to conflicts between IGOR packages.<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l8 level1 lfo8;tab-stops:list .5in'>Promoting
     a web page for SAS IGOR code sharing (should link from portal)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l8 level1 lfo8;tab-stops:list .5in'>Developing
     a common library of documented reusable code<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l8 level1 lfo8;tab-stops:list .5in'>Developing
     common 1D loaders for data<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The working group consists of:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l1 level1 lfo13;tab-stops:list .5in'>Jan
     Ilavsky (APS)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l1 level1 lfo13;tab-stops:list .5in'>Andrew
     Jackson (NIST)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l1 level1 lfo13;tab-stops:list .5in'>Steve
     Kline (NIST)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l1 level1 lfo13;tab-stops:list .5in'>Ken
     Littrell (ORNL)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l1 level1 lfo13;tab-stops:list .5in'>Andy
     Nelson (ANSTO) (chair)<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Timetable:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l5 level1 lfo9;tab-stops:list .5in'>Report
     on agenda and timetable for agenda by first FRDG meeting<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l5 level1 lfo9;tab-stops:list .5in'>Have
     most in place by Sydney nobugs meeting (fall 2008)<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<a href="http://www.smallangles.net/wgwiki/index.php/Global_SAS_Portal_Working_Group"><h2 style='margin-left:.25in;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo2;
tab-stops:list .25in'><![if !supportLists]>IV.<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span><![endif]>Global SAS Web Portal<o:p></o:p></h2></a>

<p class=MsoNormal>The idea of a global SAS portal was presented by Steve King
and was strongly supported. A central web presence that is the first place that
comes to mind whenever a SAS question comes up is overdue.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>The demise of CCP13 funding may serve
as the catalyst for this.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>It will
however require resources to actively maintain the relevance of the site.<span
style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Web technologies however mean that all
need not reside on a single sever nor is only one person required to do all the
work.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>NIST, the eScience group at
STFC (L Lerusse), and DANSE SANS group offered support.<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>A working group was formed consisting of<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l2 level1 lfo10;tab-stops:list .5in'>Andrew
     Jackson (NIST)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l2 level1 lfo10;tab-stops:list .5in'>Steve
     King (ISIS) <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l2 level1 lfo10;tab-stops:list .5in'>Jonathan
     Rawle (Diamond &amp; ISIS)<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Many issues were raised that will need to be addressed to
make this endeavor successful:<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>Facilities
     must be strongly encouraged to point to the portal and the portal must
     link to all facilities<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     canSAS pages should be move to the site as a new home will be required
     with Ron Ghosh’s retirement. <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>small-angles.ac.uk
     (ISIS/King has content) and smallangles.net (Jackson has canSAS-V website
     and mailing lists) should arrange to merge in some fashion<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     World SANS directory needs to be kept more current (will require somebody
     who can pro-actively update it on a fairly frequent basis, particularly
     with the wave of new SANS instruments coming on line worldwide). The ILL
     would like to continue hosting it, but with the retirement of Roland May,
     Peter Timmins will work to identify a new person at ILL for this task.<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>A
     world wide SAXS directory would also be a good idea &#8211; Pete Jemian
     will look into what resources are available to build it.<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     hosting of, or linking to, subversion repositories was seen as a means to
     encourage and support collaborative and/or co-operative projects (Source
     Forge for SAS).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>Examples from
     the meeting include: CCP13, MOTOFIT, NIST IGOR, DANSE. J Curtis (SASSIE)
     is interested in discussing this idea also.<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     portal should provide a place for, or pointers to, other (and all) SAS
     code repositories.<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l7 level1 lfo11;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     IUCR sa_scat mailing list should be clearly advertised on, and accessible
     from, this page.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp; </span>The site
     should also provide other, more specialized, mailing lists (lists for the
     working groups was an initial example)<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Timetable:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l3 level1 lfo12;tab-stops:list .5in'>Mailing
     lists up by end of November (Done November 6th)</li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l3 level1 lfo12;tab-stops:list .5in'>Merging
     of small-angles and smallangles by April 2008<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l3 level1 lfo12;tab-stops:list .5in'>Have
     most of the rest ready by nobugs in Sydney in fall of 2008<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<a href="http://www.smallangles.net/wgwiki/index.php/Standardization_Working_Group"><h2 style='margin-left:.25in;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo2;
tab-stops:list .25in'><![if !supportLists]>V.<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span><![endif]>Standardization<o:p></o:p></h2></a>

<p class=MsoNormal>A Standardization and QA working group was formed, initially
including:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>John
     Barker (NIST)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>Peter
     Boeseke (ESRF Contact) <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>Stephen
     Henderson (UMD) <o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>Rex
     Hjelm (LANSCE)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>Jan
     Ilavsky (APS)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>Peter
     Lindner (ILL)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>Marc
     Malfois (Diamond)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l12 level1 lfo14;tab-stops:list .5in'>Adrian
     Rennie (Uppsala University - chair)<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>There were three suggested modi operandi for the group and a
mix of all rather than only one method was promoted.<o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level1 lfo15;tab-stops:list .5in'>Run
     agreed standards regularly.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
     </span>Possible standards suggested at meeting were:<o:p></o:p></li>
 <ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=a>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level2 lfo15;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>Glassy
      Carbon (Jan Ilavsky has standard)<o:p></o:p></li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level2 lfo15;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>Ag
      Behenate &#8211; issues mentioned but currently seems reasonable<o:p></o:p></li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level2 lfo15;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>ORNL
      (Wignall) standards<o:p></o:p></li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level2 lfo15;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>Holographic
      grating (Dewhurst)<o:p></o:p></li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level2 lfo15;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>Polystyrene
      spheres (what size?)</li>
  <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level2 lfo15;tab-stops:list 1.0in'>C60
      in CS (see Henderson work?)<o:p></o:p></li>
 </ol>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level1 lfo15;tab-stops:list .5in'>Periodically
     run some "real" samples as round robin to test "real world" responses of
     instrumentation (high intensity, low intensity, steep slopes, flat
     scattering, peaks, Rg etc etc)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l14 level1 lfo15;tab-stops:list .5in'>Facility
     exchanges where one person with a sample travels to 2 or more facilities
     to run the experiments.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes">&nbsp;
     </span>Henderson points out benefit of this in terms of actually working
     things out while others point to the benefits of personnel interchange.<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>The purposes of the working group were seen to be:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l16 level1 lfo16;tab-stops:list .5in'>To
     define appropriate standard protocols and processes for best ensuring standardization.</li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l16 level1 lfo16;tab-stops:list .5in'>To
     identify initial facilities for involvement (3-5 each of neutron and
     X-ray)<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l16 level1 lfo16;tab-stops:list .5in'>To
     verify management support for the process<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l16 level1 lfo16;tab-stops:list .5in'>To
     identify protocols, what to report and how, for each type of test &#8211;
     Reports should be available on global portal web pages<o:p></o:p></li>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l16 level1 lfo16;tab-stops:list .5in'>To
     eventually explore funding options (NMI3 was suggested as a possible
     source for the European side)<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>It was envisaged that the results of the standardization
would lead to a "quality mark" from the group for facilities that are involved.
The idea being that users could be confident that results they obtain from
those facilities would be comparable.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Timetable:<o:p></o:p></p>

<ul style='margin-top:0in' type=disc>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l3 level1 lfo12;tab-stops:list .5in'>Develop
     a plan for the path forward with timetables by first meeting of FRDG.<o:p></o:p></li>
</ul>

<h2 style='margin-left:.25in;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo2;
tab-stops:list .25in'><![if !supportLists]>VI.<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span><![endif]>Workshop Themes<o:p></o:p></h2>

<p class=MsoNormal>There were a number of general themes of the meeting that
were not action items themselves but capture the overall "sense of the
workshop"<o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=1 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l4 level1 lfo17;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     participants strongly support the idea of open development of SAS
     software. This is both for reasons of collaboration and for openness of
     the scientific process through examination by others of details of methods
     used.<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=2 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l4 level1 lfo17;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     participants strongly encourage facilities to publish the definition of
     all formats they use such that a newcomer can immediately comprehend said
     formats.<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=3 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l4 level1 lfo17;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     participants also encourage facilities to provide the means to read their
     data. This could be a library, code examples, or converters to the
     to-be-agreed XML format.<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<ol style='margin-top:0in' start=4 type=1>
 <li class=MsoNormal style='mso-list:l4 level1 lfo17;tab-stops:list .5in'>The
     participants strongly encourage SAS software developers to publish a clear
     definition of the inputs their code expects as well as the definition of
     any outputs, in particular details of the output parameters, from their
     code. This aims to more easily allow meta-analysis of the scattering data
     by aggregation of fitting results.<o:p></o:p></li>
</ol>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<h1 align=center style='text-align:center'>Workshop Attendees<o:p></o:p></h1>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><img width=624 height=468
src="canSASVReportFinal_files/groupphoto.jpg" v:shapes="_x0000_i1026"></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><b>Back Row</b><span
style='font-weight:normal'> (L-R): Ron Ghosh, Peter Timmins, Adrian Rennie,
David Mildner, Lauent Lerusse, Marc Malfois, Ken Littrell, Steve King, Jan
Ilavsky, Stephen Henderson, Jonathan Rawle, </span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><b>Middle Row</b><span
style='font-weight:normal'> (L-R): Andy Nelson, Paul Kienzle, Andrew Jackson,
Rex Hjelm, Peter Boesecke, Boualem Hammouda, Helmut Kaiser</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><b>Front Row</b><span
style='font-weight:normal'> (L-R): Pete Jemian, Steve Miller, Paul Butler,
Mathieu Doucet, Lionel Porcar, Charles Dewhurst, Steve Kline, John Barker,
Daniel Clemens</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><![if !supportEmptyParas]>&nbsp;<![endif]><o:p></o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.25in'><b>Not present for photograph</b><span
style='font-weight:normal'>: Michael Agamalian, Joeseph Curtis, Susan Krueger,
Mark Laver, Mike Martin, Michihniro Nagao, Cameron Neylon, Xiangyun Qiu, Bob
Shirley, Piotr Zolnierczuk<o:p></o:p></span></p>

</div>
</div></div>
<!--#include file="footer.html"-->
</body>

</html>
